---
title: Release 0.9.2 - You're in for a treat!
author: Daniel Wilkowski
authorFBID: 100001025937739
---

😎 T-Regx The Dinosaur is really proud to announce its first beta version! Despite the beta suffix, it's 100% suitable for production use. It doesn't have any known bugs - check out the issues. There is a few breaking changes (since that's a 0.* version), but there are also a looot of improvements and new feautres.
What's new in this release:

Here's a release on github: https://github.com/T-Regx/T-Regx/releases/tag/v0.9.2 (see [Changelog.md](https://github.com/T-Regx/T-Regx/blob/develop/ChangeLog.md)).

* Breaking changes
    * Methods `pattern()`/`Pattern::of()` no longer "magically" guess whether a pattern is delimited or not.
      `Pattern::of()` assumes pattern *is* delimited, new `Pattern::pcre()` takes an old-school delimited pattern.
    * Constructor `new Pattern()` is no longer a part of T-Regx API. Use `Pattern::of()`/`pattern()`
    * Renamed `Match.parseInt()` to `Match.toInt()` (the same for `MatchGroup`)
    * Removed `pattern()->match()->test()`/`fails()`. From now on, use `pattern()->test()`/`fails()`
    * Removed `is()`:
        - `is()->delimited()`
        - `is()->usable()`
        - `is()->valid()` is changed to `valid()`
    * Removed `split()->ex()`, changed `split()->inc()` to `split()`
* Features
    * Added `Match.group().replace()` 🔥
    * Added `pattern()->match()->fluent()` 🔥
    * Added `pattern()->match()->asInt()`
    * Added `pattern()->match()->distinct()` (leaves only unique matches)
    * Added prepared pattern method `Pattern::inject()`/`Pattern::bind()` (see below)
    * In `pattern()->match()->groups()`:
        * Added `groups()->forEach()`/`iterate()`
        * Added `groups()->flatMap()`
        * Added `groups()->map()`
        * Added `group()->fluent()`
        * Added `groups()->names()` (and `namedGroups()->names()`)
        * Added `groups()->count()` (and `namedGroups()->count()`)
    * Added `match()->offsets()->fluent()`
    * Added `match()->group(string)->offsets()->fluent()`
    * Added `pattern()->forArray()->strict()` which throws for invalid values, instead of filtering them out
* SafeRegex
    * Added `preg::grep_keys()` 🔥, that works exactly like `preg::grep()`, but filters by keys (also accepts [`PREG_GREP_INVERT`](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.preg-grep.php))
* Enhancements/updates
    * Method `by()->group()->orElse()` now receives lazy-loaded `Match`, instead of a subject
    * Added `withReferences()` to `CompositePattern.chainedReplace()`
    * Previously named `Pattern::inject()` is renamed to `Pattern::bind()`
    * The `Pattern::bind()` (old `Pattern::inject()`) still accepts values as an associative array, but new `Pattern::inject()` receives values without regard for the keys.
    * Fixed passing invalid types to `forArray()`. Previously, caused fatal error due to internal `preg_grep()` implementation.
* Other
    * Now `MalformedPatternException` is thrown, instead of `CompileSafeRegexException`, when using invalid PCRE syntax.
    * Returning `Match` from `replace()->callback()` (instead of `Match.text()` as `string`)
    * Match `+12` is no longer considered a valid integer for `isInt()`/`toInt()`
    * Unnamed group will be represented as `null` in `Match.groupNames()`, instead of being simply ignored
    * `helper()` method, `Pattern` and `PatternBuilder` now return interface `PatternInterface`, instead of `Pattern` class.
      `Pattern` class now only holds static utility methods, and `PatternImpl` holds the pattern implementation.
* Maintenance
    * PhpUnit throws different exceptions because of [PHP `__toString()` exception policy change](https://wiki.php.net/rfc/tostring_exceptions).

Foot note:
 - Apart from PHP type hints, every version up to this point could be run on PHP 5.3 (if one removes type hints from 
   code, one can run T-Regx on PHP 5.3). Every error, exception, malfunction, inconsistency was handled correctly by 
   T-Regx. From this version on (`0.9.2`), handling of the errors and inconsistencies is dropped, since T-Regx now 
   only supports PHP 7.1.

Hope you guys will like and enjoy it! 
