---
title: Release 0.9.7 - Match as vanilla array!
author: Daniel Wilkowski
authorFBID: 100001025937739
---

There was a lot of changes in the code, so I reckon we could release twice in the same week, because why not :)

So what are the changes?

Bare with me.

### The concept

Capturing groups in T-Regx have a really rich API (probably the richest out there), with a lot of variables.
Most importantly T-Regx handles:
 - **Invalid groups** (e.g. negative index `-1` or malformed group `!@#$`), which always throw exception
 - **Missing groups** (e.g. group `4` used in pattern, that only has 2 groups; same for named) which conditionally throws exceptions
 - **Optional groups** (e.g. `(origin/)?master`), which is really tricky to distinguish with PCRE
 - **Matched groups** (which can be tricky, if the matched group is an empty string `""`)

Because of that, syntax of groups is not the shortest:

```
pattern('(origin/)?master')->match('master')->first(function (Match $match) {
    $match->group(1)->text(); // for example
});
```

But we know that T-Regx users mostly care about the last group, **Matched groups**, so they would like to use them
with as simple syntax as possible. That makes sense.

### The idea

At first, there was an idea of [`Match`] details implementing [`\ArrayAccess`], so this syntax would be possible:
```
pattern('(origin/)?master')->match('master')->first(function (Match $match) {
    $match[1]; // same as above
});
```

Well, that syntax does look good, at first, but it comes at a price. A high price.

Why we ditched the `\ArrayAccess` idea:
 - Unnecessary `set` and `unset` methods
 - Methods that work for arrays (`array_key_exist()`) won't work with [`\ArrayAccess`]
 - `empty($match[1])` returns `true`, even if the group `1` was matched (`""` and `"0"` **yes** is falsy)
 - `isset($match[-2])` couldn't throw an exception for a malformed group
 - There's a bug in PHP, that causes `$match['100']` to be treated as `$match[100]` (cast to `int` any numeric value).

### The solution

So, instead, we got an idea: What if `$match` was a real PHP `array`. Every method or notation that works
for arrays, will also work.

```
pattern('(origin/)?master')->match('master')->asArray()->first(function (array $match) {
    $match[1]; // same as above
});
```

The structure of the array is perfectly identical to what `preg_match()` would return :)

[`Match`]: /docs/match
[`\ArrayAccess`]: https://www.php.net/manual/en/class.arrayaccess.php
